as Israel's prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu visits Washington summed out
the purpose of his trip at home in
Israel and in the US critics say
Netanyahu has not done enough to free
the hostages held by Hamas since the 7th
of
October since prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu and President Joe Biden last
saw each other in September ties between
their two countries have only become
more tense and when the Israeli leader
makes a speech to the US Congress on
Wednesday experts say he hopes his
message would convince more than just
the gathered lawmakers he has two
audiences in mind one is the American
audience and he wants to to build
support for Israel build support for
Israel in
Congress uh
reinforce Israeli us ties he's also
thinking about domestic audience so many
Israelis are upset with how the war's
gone they're upset about the hostages I
think he wants to demonstrate that he
hasn't destroyed us Israeli relations as
some of his political critics argue what
he is much less interested in is what
the Biden White House thinks concerns
over Israel's Rafa offensive in May
prompted the us to stop certain armed
shipments to Israel and a video
Netanyahu released claiming that the
White House was withholding even more
support than it had made public put
further strain on the relationship but
that the Israeli leader has also yet to
express full support for a us back
ceasefire host deal essentially blocking
a path to peace that's especially
troubling to
Washington he will um humiliate Biden
frankly by showing up without having
agreed to a ceasefire deal I think the
anticipation was that by the end of July
you know with this war in its ninth
month that there would have been a
ceasefire that there would be a plan for
what happens afterwards this is not the
right time if he had accepted the
ceasefire months ago and begun a
reconstruction process in Gaza perhaps
at home the Israeli opposition also
called for Netanyahu to either announce
his acceptance of the hostage deal in
front of Congress or not go to
Washington at all but Maya Roman whose
relative is still being held by Hamas in
Gaza says she'll be going to the US
capital to try to keep the spotlight on
the remaining hostages rather than on
politics there are hostage families that
are coming with him and he's going to
talk about uh the ordeal we've been
through and all of those things are true
and important for people to remember I
just feel like if he talks about those
things without being committed to a deal
then he's doing a disservice he's
basically taking our
pain and using it for gain and not for
um our purposes not for bringing back
our loved ones Maya Roman will be in
Congress to watch Nan yahu but more than
a dozen Democrat lawmakers say they'll
show their opposition to Israel's
conduct of the war in Gaza by staying
away and let's get more on this from DW
correspondent Tanya krer in Jerusalem
Tanya with a hostage deal still hanging
in the balance and criticism back home
what message will Netanyahu be bringing
to the US
Congress well I think the sense in
Israel that his uh visit uh in
Washington has become just much more
complicated for Netanyahu because of the
withdrawal of uh President Joe Biden
from the presidential race and Netanyahu
has to walk a very uh fine line here
also because this visit comes as a very
low point between uh the US and Israel
uh relations now um it is not clear when
uh the meeting that's very much looked
at here aside from the speech in
Congress uh on Wednesday there was
supposed to be a meeting between Joe
Biden and uh prime minister Benyamin
nyaho at the white house because of
Biden's uh covid-19 infection it's not
yet clear when this will be scheduled
but it will be very interesting to see
the dynamic between uh the two leaders
their relationship has been strained
although we have to say the US support
for the war in Gaza has been very strong
with continuous arms supplies to Israel
but both leaders have not seen eye to
eye in many uh decisions and uh it's
it's talked about here that Joe Biden
now that he dropped out of of the race
could also think about his legacy and
could put or assert more pressure on
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu now on
the other hand we also understand netan
will also look to men ties with
presidential candidate Donald Trump
there has been a close relationship
between the two while Trump was
president but this relationship has also
suffered but as you say uh hanging over
all of this is the question of the
hostages that remain in Gaza and there's
a sense here in Israel at least in the
media but also people talking about it
that M Netanyahu is out of touch with
the public sentiment most of a majority
of the public wants to see the hostages
to come home although maybe uh not
everybody's happy with such a deal but
that's a deal that also was put forward
by um Joe Biden and it hasn't really uh
closed yet and there will be also
protests we understand that are expected
by relatives and uh uh families of the
hostages that travel to Washington
separately that will protest against
Netanyahu there in Washington briefly
Tanya this visit comes as the war
continues to rage in Gaza what is the
latest
there well that's right we're hearing
there from residents especially in Khan
yunas but also other parts of Gaz Gaza
especially also in Gaza City uh there is
an intense uh bombardment going on and
that also comes especially there in Kan
yunas after the Israeli Army on Monday
uh ordered people to evacuate once again
from certain areas in the east of hanun
but also uh reportedly part of the uh
so-called humanitarian Zone that they
said in that statement they would
rearrange so you can imagine that people
are again on the move and not knowing
where to go and casualties are reported
from there and also from other parts of
Gaza tanyaa in Jerusalem thanks so
much and as we just heard the plight of
Civilian Palestinians trying to find
refuge in Gaza is on ongoing as Israel's
offensive continues even into areas
forly declared
safe once again hundreds of people
forced to
evacuate this time the Israeli military
ordered gazin to leave an area had
designated a humanitarian
Zone they took what they could carry and
hurried to escape
we were making breakfast for our
children as we had been safe for a month
only to be stun by shells warning
leaflets and martyrs in the
streets we went out in
panic you could see what people look
like look at the crowd we're being
displaced for the 15th
[Applause]
time Israel began shelling and air
strikes in Han Yunis after ordering
evacuations it said these areas had been
used for renewed attacks by
militants the Hamas run Health Ministry
reported at least 70 people have been
killed and more than 200
wounded all of a sudden the fighter jet
struck and houses were targeted I was
left passed out on the
ground gaza's overwhelmed Hospital
received a large number of casualties on
Monday some were unable to operate
because of the new
offensive the situation is very
difficult inside the hospital because
there is no spaces for the patients
there is no space in the operation
theaters there is lack of medical
supplies so we cannot we cannot survive
our patients we cannot survive our sever
patients the situation became more and
more difficult more and more
critical the United Nations and
international relief agencies insist
there is no safe place left in
Gaza but these families have no other
option once again they have to move to
get away from the next Israeli strike